(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V8Kwlxh-Uf0&feature=emb_title)
The Box Model:-The box model comprises the set of properties which define parts of an element that take up space on a web page. 
The model includes the content area’s size (width and height) and the element’s padding, border, and margin.
Width and height — specifies the width and height of the content area.
Padding — specifies the amount of space between the content area and the border.
Border — specifies the thickness and style of the border surrounding the content area and padding.
Margin — specifies the amount of space between the border and the outside edge of the element.(Margin is the space between elements.)
Example:-https://s3.amazonaws.com/codecademy-content/courses/freelance-1/unit-4/diagram-boxmodel.svg

Height and Width:-An element’s content has two dimensions: a height and a width.
By default, the dimensions of an HTML box are set to hold the raw contents of the box.
Pixels allow you to set the exact size of an element’s box (width and height).
When the width and height of an element are set in pixels, it will be the same size on all devices — an element that fills a laptop screen will overflow a mobile screen.

Borders:-A border is a line that surrounds an element, like a frame around a painting. Borders can be set with a specific width, style, and color.
width — The thickness of the border. A border’s thickness can be set in pixels or with one of the following keywords: thin, medium, or thick.
style — The design of the border. Web browsers can render any of "https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/border-style#Values" different styles. Some of these styles include: none, dotted, and solid.
color — The color of the border. Web browsers can render colors using a few different formats, including 140("https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value") built-in color keywords.

Border Radius:-Thanks to CSS, a border doesn’t have to be square.
You can modify the corners of an element’s border box with the border-radius property.

Padding I:-The space between the contents of a box and the borders of a box is known as padding.
Padding is like the space between a picture and the frame surrounding it. 
The padding property is often used to expand the background color and make content look less cramped.
padding-top padding-right padding-bottom padding-left

Padding II:-Another implementation of the padding property lets you specify exactly how much padding there should be on each side of the content in a single declaration.
p.content-header {
  border: 3px solid grey;
  padding: 6px 11px 4px 9px;
} 
In the example above, the four values 6px 11px 4px 9px correspond to the amount of padding in a clockwise rotation
it specifies the amount of padding on the top (6 pixels), right (11 pixels), bottom (4 pixels), and left (9 pixels)
if the top and bottom values for padding will equal each other, and the left and right values for padding will also equal each other, you can use the following shortcut:
p.content-header {
  padding: 5px 10px;
}

Margins I:-Margin refers to the space directly outside of the box. The margin property is used to specify the size of this space.
margin-top margin-right margin-bottom margin-left
Margins II:-A similar implementation of the margin property is used to specify exactly how much margin there should be on each side of the box in a single declaration.

Auto:-The margin property also lets you center content. However, you must follow a few syntax requirements.

Margin Collapse:-It may be helpful to think of collapsing vertical margins as a short person trying to push a taller person. 
The tall person has longer arms and can easily push the short person, while the person with short arms cannot reach the person with long arms.

Minimum and Maximum Height and Width:-Because a web page can be viewed through displays of differing screen size, the content on the web page can suffer from those changes in size.
To avoid this problem, CSS offers two properties that can limit how narrow or how wide an element’s box can be sized to.
min-width — this property ensures a minimum width of an element’s box.
max-width — this property ensures a maximum width of an element’s box.
You can also limit the minimum and maximum height of an element.
min-height — this property ensures a minimum height for an element’s box.
max-height — this property ensures a maximum height of an element’s box.

Overflow:-The overflow property controls what happens to content that spills, or overflows, outside its box. It can be set to one of the following values:
hidden - when set to this value, any content that overflows will be hidden from view.
scroll - when set to this value, a scrollbar will be added to the element’s box so that the rest of the content can be viewed by scrolling.
visible - when set to this value, the overflow content will be displayed outside of the containing element. Note, this is the default value.

Resetting Defaults:-All major web browsers have a default stylesheet they use in the absence of an external stylesheet.
These default stylesheets are known as user agent stylesheets.
User agent stylesheets often have default CSS rules that set default values for padding and margin.
* {
  margin: 0;
  padding: 0;
}
The code in the example above resets the default margin and padding values of all HTML elements. It is often the first CSS rule in an external stylesheet.

Visibility:-
Elements can be hidden from view with the visibility property.
The visibility property can be set to one of the following values:
hidden — hides an element.
visible — displays an element.

div.headline {
  width: 300px;
  margin: 0 auto;
}
The div.headline elements will have a width of 300 pixels, a vertical margin of 0, and will be horizontally centered within their parent container.

What is the name of the space between the border of one element and the next element? Margin
Which of the following will set the vertical padding to 20 pixels and horizontal padding to 40 pixels?
padding: 20px 40px:-
Correct! When padding is provided two values, the first controls vertical padding and the second controls horizontal padding.

What is the total height of a .box element with the CSS properties below?
.box {  
  border: 1px solid black;
  padding: 10px;
  height: 125px;
}
147 pixels
The total element height includes the height property, the top and bottom border heights, and the top and bottom padding heights (125 + 10 + 10 + 1 + 1)..

What is the name of the space between the content container and the border? Padding

Which of the following will set the right padding to 10 pixels, bottom padding to 15 pixels, left to 20 pixels, and top padding to 25 pixels?
When four values are provided to padding (or margin), they are applied in the the order: top, right, bottom, left.
