(https://www.codecademy.com/courses/learn-sql/articles/what-is-sqlite)
(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nwLV5Txc8jM&feature=emb_title)--Creating a Table
SQL, Structured Query Language, is a programming language designed to manage data stored in relational databases.
SQL operates through simple, declarative statements. This keeps data accurate and secure, and helps maintain the integrity of databases, regardless of size.
A relational database is a database that organizes information into one or more tables.
A table is a collection of data organized into rows and columns.Tables are sometimes referred to as relations.
All data stored in a relational database is of a certain data type. Some of the most common data types are:
INTEGER, a positive or negative whole number
TEXT, a text string
DATE, the date formatted as YYYY-MM-DD
REAL, a decimal value

Statements:-A statement is text that the database recognizes as a valid command. Statements always end in a semicolon ;.
CREATE TABLE is a clause. Clauses perform specific tasks in SQL. By convention, clauses are written in capital letters. Clauses can also be referred to as commands.
Create:-
CREATE statements allow us to create a new table in the database.
You can use the CREATE statement anytime you want to create a new table from scratch.

CREATE TABLE celebs (
   id INTEGER, 
   name TEXT, 
   age INTEGER
);
 CREATE TABLE is a clause that tells SQL you want to create a new table.
2. celebs is the name of the table.
3. (id INTEGER, name TEXT, age INTEGER) is a list of parameters defining each column, or attribute in the table and its data type:
id is the first column in the table. It stores values of data type INTEGER
name is the second column in the table. It stores values of data type TEXT
age is the third column in the table. It stores values of data type INTEGER

Insert:-The INSERT statement inserts a new row into a table. You can use the INSERT statement when you want to add new records.
VALUES is a clause that indicates the data being inserted.

Select:-SELECT statements are used to fetch data from a database.
Select name(only name) from table name; or Select *(all) from table name;

Alter:-The ALTER TABLE statement adds a new column to a table. You can use this command when you want to add columns to a table.
ALTER TABLE celebs 
ADD COLUMN twitter_handle TEXT;
ADD COLUMN is a clause that lets you add a new column to a table:
twitter_handle is the name of the new column being added
TEXT is the data type for the new column

NULL is a special value in SQL that represents missing or unknown data. Here, the rows that existed before the column was added have NULL (∅) values for twitter_handle.

Update:-The UPDATE statement edits a row in a table. You can use the UPDATE statement when you want to change existing records.
      UPDATE celebs 
      SET twitter_handle = '@taylorswift13' 
      WHERE id = 4; 
1. UPDATE is a clause that edits a row in the table.
2. celebs is the name of the table.
3. SET is a clause that indicates the column to edit.
twitter_handle is the name of the column that is going to be updated
@taylorswift13 is the new value that is going to be inserted into the twitter_handle column.
4. WHERE is a clause that indicates which row(s) to update with the new column value. Here the row with a 4 in the id column is the row that will have the twitter_handle updated to @taylorswift13.

Delete:-The DELETE FROM statement deletes one or more rows from a table. You can use the statement when you want to delete existing records. 

Constraints:-Constraints that add information about how a column can be used are invoked after specifying the data type for a column.
They can be used to tell the database to reject inserted data that does not adhere to a certain restriction.

1.PRIMARY KEY columns can be used to uniquely identify the row. Attempts to insert a row with an identical value to a row already in the table will result in a constraint violation which will not allow you to insert the new row.
2.UNIQUE columns have a different value for every row. This is similar to PRIMARY KEY except a table can have many different UNIQUE columns.
3.NOT NULL columns must have a value. Attempts to insert a row without a value for a NOT NULL column will result in a constraint violation and the new row will not be inserted.
4.DEFAULT columns take an additional argument that will be the assumed value for an inserted row if the new row does not specify a value for that column.

A statement is a string of characters that the database recognizes as a valid command.
CREATE TABLE creates a new table.
INSERT INTO adds a new row to a table.
SELECT queries data from a table.
ALTER TABLE changes an existing table.
UPDATE edits a row in a table.
DELETE FROM deletes rows from a table.
Constraints add information about how a column can be used.